Problem Description:

This project deals with implementation of two linear methods of classification: Linear Discriminant Function Analysis and
k-Nearest Neighbor classification models. The Linear Discriminant Function learns its parameters using the 
Minimization of Sum of Squared Errors method. While, the k-NN classifier is trained using Fisher Projection. 
The two models are tested using three different data sets and their classification accuracies are compared to draw conclusions
about the merits and demerits of each of the adapted approaches.

Dataset Description:

Three data sets are used to evaluate the performances of the built classification models in this project.

a) Wine Dataset
This dataset classifies wine into three different categories based on their chemical composition. 
It uses 13 different features to determine the type of wine. The training set consists of 90 samples 
and the test set consists of 88 samples.

b) Wallpaper Dataset
This dataset classifies wallpapers into 17 different groups based on 500 features. 
This high dimensional dataset is split equally into training and test sets with each containing 1700 data samples.

c) Taiji Dataset
The Taiji Dataset classifies the captured motion into 8 classes of transitional and non-transitional frames.
It uses 64 attributes to identify the frames and is a comparatively high volume data set with 11361 samples in the training set
and 3924 samples in the test set.


Files: 

	starter_ldf - File to implement LDF using Least Squared Error
	starter_knn - File to implement kNN classification using Fisher Projection
	two_class_case - File to demonstrate that Fisher criterion is a special case of least squares, for a 2 class problem.


1) Run 'starter_ldf.m' to obtain classification results using linear discriminant method

Associated Functions:

	loadDataset - To load one of the three given datasets

	learnDiscriminant- To learn the discriminant function for LDF
	classify_ldy - To assign test labels to test set based on learned weights

2) Run 'starter_knn' to obtain classification results using Fisher Projection

Associated Functions:
	
	loadDataset - To load one of the three given dataset

	fisher_Projection - To learn the Fisher weights in order to project the data.
	knnClassify - To classify the projected test data using kNN classifier

3) Run 'two_class_case.m' to obatin the comparison results for the 2 classifiers 

